
title: About Refunds
desc: Initiate Normal and Instant Refunds using Razorpay Dashboard and APIs.

There could be situations when customers request a refund of the payments made for the products or services purchased or availed on your website or app.

Customer Looking for Refund

If you are a customer looking for a refund, know about customer refunds.

Refund Types
Following are the various types of refunds that you can use to refund payments to your customers:

Normal Refund
  Amount is refunded within 5-7 working days.
 Instant Refund
  Amount is refunded almost immediately. By issuing instant refunds to your customers, you can provide a better user experience for them. This also helps in improving their reliability and trust in your business.
Batch Refund
  Issue refunds in bulk using an XLSX or CSV file. Once you upload a file, it is picked up for processing after 70 minutes. You can cancel a batch upload in the 70 minutes before it is picked up for processing.

Dashboard Actions
You can perform the following actions on refunds from the Razorpay Dashboard:
View Refunds
Issue Refunds
 Set Default Refund Speed
View Settlement Details of a Refund
Subscribe to Webhook Events

Refund States

Following are the various states of a refund:

States | Description

processing | This state indicates that Razorpay is attempting to process the refund.

processed | This is the final state of the refund.

failed | A refund can attain the failed state in the following scenarios:Normal refund not possible for a payment which is more than 6 months old.Instant Refund can sometimes fail because of customer's account or bank-related issues.

Handle Refund Chargeback
For the prevention of chargebacks, Razorpay only does source refunds. It means that money is refunded to the payment method that the customer used to make the payment. For example, if a credit card was used to make the payment, the refund is pushed to the same credit card. Similarly, in the case of UPI payments, the refund is pushed to the VPA used while making the payment.

If a chargeback is received for an instantly refunded payment, the processed refund will have a UTR (Unique Transfer Reference) in the callback. This UTR appears against the ARN (Application Reference Number) parameter in the Refund entity. The UTR serves as a proof of refund completed between you and Razorpay.

Additionally, Razorpay passes the RRN (Razorpay Reference Number) of the payment in the Fund Transfer Request sent for the refund. This ties the instant refund back to the parent payment, thereby, serving as a proof of the refund. This data can also be used as a defense against a future chargeback or arbitration case.

Reports
Detailed insights can be gained using reports and real-time data on the dashboard. These reports can then be used for accounting and recon purposes. Know more about reports.

Understand how the Refund process works.

Related Information
Normal Refund
 Instant Refund
Batch Refund
EMI and Pay Later Refunds
Issue refunds
View Refunds
Set the Refund Speed
Add funds to your account to process refunds (low account balance)
Handle refund errors
Refunds API
Subscribe to Webhooks
Refund Communication
Refunds FAQs
