











Types of Leaves in India–Know All about the Leaves at Work - RazorpayX Payroll































































































Business Management
Payments
Payroll
Business Banking Plus
Guides & Ebooks
 



Facebook
Twitter
Instagram





 







In
Payroll


				Types of Leaves in India–Know All about the Leaves at Work			

March 3, 2023

5 Mins Read



 




Share



Share on Facebook



Share on Twitter



LinkedIn



Email







Table of Contents

Types of leaves in India1. Casual Leave2. Privileged Leave/ Earned Leave3. Sick Leave4. Maternity Leave5. Marriage Leave6. Paternity Leave7. Bereavement Leave8. Comp Off9. Loss of Pay10. Sabbatical Leave11. Study Leave12. Religious Festival LeavesManage employees and their leaves better with RazorpayX Payroll
Leaves or time off from work are essential for employees of any organisation. In India, there are several types of leaves granted by the government to employees to manage work-life balance.
In this blog post, we will list the different types of leaves available for employees in India, their eligibility criteria, and their benefits.
Types of leaves in India
There are below mentioned 12 different types of leaves in India and we’ve provided details about each in the next section.

 Casual leave
 Privileged leave/earned leave
 Sick leave
 Maternity leave
 Marriage leave
 Paternity leave
 Bereavement Leave
 Comp off
 Loss of Pay
 Sabbatical leave
 Study leave
 Religious festival leaves

1. Casual Leave
Casual leave is granted to employees for unexpected or urgent situations such as personal emergencies or sudden illnesses. The number of casual leaves varies from organization to organization, but typically, employees can avail of up to 7-10 days of casual leave in a year.
2. Privileged Leave/ Earned Leave
Privileged leave or earned leave is granted to employees who have completed a certain number of years in the organization. This type of leave is usually planned and taken in advance, unlike casual leave. The number of privileged leaves varies from organization to organization, and it typically ranges from 15-30 days per year.
3. Sick Leave
Sick leave is granted to employees who are unwell or have an illness that prevents them from coming to work. In India, employees are entitled to a certain number of sick leave days every year, which varies from organization to organization.
Companies like Razorpay have renamed sick leaves to ‘wellness leaves’ to encourage employees to take leaves for mental health. CEO & Co-Founder, Harshil Mathur said,
4. Maternity Leave
Maternity leave is granted to female employees who are expecting a child. In India, female employees are entitled to 26 weeks of maternity leave, which can be availed of before or after childbirth. During this period, the employee is entitled to full pay.
5. Marriage Leave
Marriage leave is granted to employees who are getting married. The number of marriage leave days varies from organization to organization, but typically, employees are entitled to 3-5 days of marriage leave.
6. Paternity Leave
Paternity leave is granted to male employees who have become fathers. In India, male employees are entitled to 15 days of paternity leave. These can be availed of within 6 months of the birth of the child.
7. Bereavement Leave
Bereavement leave is granted to employees who have suffered a personal loss such as the death of a close family member. The number of bereavement leave days varies from organization to organization, but typically, employees are entitled to 3-5 days of bereavement leave.
8. Comp Off
Comp off or compensatory off is a type of leave granted to employees who have worked on a holiday or a weekend. In such cases, the employee is granted a compensatory off day, which can be availed of at a later date.
9. Loss of Pay
Loss of pay is when the employee is not paid for the duration of the leave. This type of leave is typically granted for personal reasons such as extended travel or study breaks.
10. Sabbatical Leave
A sabbatical leave is a period of extended break taken by employees from their job for personal or professional reasons. This leave can be used for various reasons, including pursuing further education, travelling, or simply taking a break from work.
Download Free Sabbatical Leave Policy template
11. Study Leave
Study leave is granted to employees to pursue their higher education or professional development. This leave is typically granted for a specific duration, during which the employee can enrol in a course or program of study related to their job or career. The employee is usually expected to return to work after the completion of the study leave and utilize the knowledge and skills gained during the leave to benefit the organization. 
The duration and eligibility criteria for study leave vary from organization to organization and are usually outlined in the company’s HR policy. Study leave may be granted with or without pay, and employees may be required to sign a bond to serve the organization for a specified period after the completion of the study leave.
12. Religious Festival Leaves
Religious festival leaves are granted to employees to observe and celebrate religious festivals that are significant to them. In India, there are several festivals that are celebrated by people from different religions, such as Diwali, Christmas, Eid, and so on.
You can take help from our FREE HR Survival Toolkit that has the 2023 calendar to plan for leaves and HR events in your companies. It also has other resources such as HR letter templates, checklists and deadlines. 
Download FREE HR Survival Toolkit
 
Employers should also ensure that their employees are informed about the different types of leaves they are entitled to and that the leaves are granted in a fair and transparent manner. 
Manage employees and their leaves better with RazorpayX Payroll
RazorpayX Payroll is India’s only fully automated payroll software that offers a myriad of features for HR professionals, admins and employees. It also has a leave management system integrated with so that it factors in the leaves granted when employee salaries are calculated and disbursed.
Explore RazorpayX Payroll
 
Other features of RazorpayX Payroll include:

HR Management software
Accurate salary calculation & disbursement
Automatic compliance calculation & filings such as PF, PT, TDS & ESIC
Annual proof verification of investments done by employees
Employee reimbursements
Form 16 and payslip generation 

Try it for free!
 



 










 Liked this article? Subscribe to our weekly newsletter for more.











Types of leaves



0













Author
Alish Gill 
Alish is a writer at RazorpayX. Zoophilist. Coffee Addict. And now a FinTech enthusiast. When not writing you'll find her learning French, taking a long walk (or run) with her dog, or Netflixing.





Related Posts



 

HRD Full Form–Objectives, Purpose, Types and More

March 5, 2023





 

Sabbatical Leave Meaning (+ Free Policy Template)

February 22, 2023





 

Roles and Responsibilities of HR–8 Things to Keep in Mind

February 21, 2023





 

9 Methods of Recruitment Nobody Told You

February 21, 2023








Write A Comment Cancel Reply














Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
				

 

 


 




 

 










Enter your email address below to subscribe to our newsletter










 





Recent Posts


Startup Business Loans: 5 Key Factors That Determine Your Eligibility


6 Tips to Build a Strong Business Credit Profile: A Guide to Online Business Loan Eligibility


Corporate Finance: A Comprehensive Guide


What Lenders Look For: Understanding Business Loan Eligibility


A Brief History of Business Loans in India










 




In
Payments


ATM: All You Need to Know About Automated teller machine


December 11, 2022

4 Mins Read

 








 




In
Taxation & Notifications


MSME Definition- MSME Full-form and Meaning 2023


September 13, 2021

5 Mins Read

 





 







 
 







Facebook





Twitter





Instagram





YouTube





LinkedIn



© Razorpay 2021. All Rights Reserved				

 Top




 










Submit

			Type above and press Enter to search. Press Esc to cancel.		





Disclaimer: Banking Services and Razorpay powered Current Account is provided by Scheduled Banks





 




































