











Startup Current Account: The Best Way to Bank for Indian Startups - RazorpayX































































































Business Management
Payments
Payroll
Business Banking Plus
Guides & Ebooks
 



Facebook
Twitter
Instagram





 







In
Business Banking Plus


				Startup Current Account: The Best Way to Bank for Indian Startups			

September 5, 2022

6 Mins Read



 




Share



Share on Facebook



Share on Twitter



LinkedIn



Email







Table of Contents

What are the benefits of a current account for your Startup?1. Transact securely and track your money movement easily2. Transact in foreign currency3. Make payments in bulk, and collect your dues with ease4. Make informed business decisions5. Transact without worrying about limitsHow to select the right startup current account Monthly Average Balance requirementOverdraft facilityTransaction feesRobust online banking infrastructureDocuments for opening a current accountThe RazorpayX-Powered Startup Current Account: built by disruptors, for disruptors
As of 2022, India is the third largest startup ecosystem in the world.
Many startup founders initially feel that they can manage their finances without having a current account. However, sooner or later, they realise that they require a startup current account for streamlined withdrawals, deposits and other business transactions. 
Here’s a tell-all piece on current accounts, and why they are an absolute must for Indian startups.  
What are the benefits of a current account for your Startup?
Here are five major reasons why you need a startup current account: 
1. Transact securely and track your money movement easily
Businesses need to carry out transactions of substantial value. Businesses carry out a large volume of transactions every day, many of which involve substantial sums of money. Therefore, it is crucial that the transactions are carried out securely, and are well-documented. . A current account allows you to transact securely while enabling you to track money movement effectively.
Explore RazorpayX Current Accounts
2. Transact in foreign currency
Instead of having a separate account for foreign exchange, several financial institutions provide facilities with their current accounts, which are customised for startups. As a startup founder, you can also opt for the services of an expert to guide you through the regulations around foreign investment and trade.
3. Make payments in bulk, and collect your dues with ease
With a  current account, you can make bulk payments for your startup. Also, several financial institutions provide electronic collection services which enable you to collect payments digitally through RTGS and NEFT. This, in turn, helps you increase effectiveness and efficiency of revenue collection.
4. Make informed business decisions
Current accounts are ideal for businesses to manage their transactions by accessing their accounts daily. Businesses can make informed decisions now with faster access to financial reports and other information about transactions in real time. Having a Current Account also helps in improving their creditworthiness. 
A current account gives you a clear view of your transactions, expenses and incomes, thereby helping you make informed decisions about your business. 
5. Transact without worrying about limits
 Such flexibility proves to be very helpful in ensuring that a big-value business transaction is carried out without any hitch. 
A current account gives you the flexibility to deposit and withdraw money as many times as you need, with no cap on transaction amounts. This helps ensure smooth money movement and timely payments to all your stakeholders.
How to select the right startup current account 
 Here’s what you should consider while choosing a  startup current account:
Monthly Average Balance requirement
A majority of banks require account holders to maintain a monthly average balance in their current accounts. Maintaining a monthly average balance enables you to be eligible for multiple business banking benefits, for e.g: free cash deposits, DD benefits and so much more.Make sure you check this requirement before applying, especially if you are an entrepreneur just starting your venture. 
Read more about Monthly Average Balance
Overdraft facility
As a current account holder, you would be eligible to opt for the overdraft facility, if your bank is convinced of your creditworthiness. This facility can come in handy if your business faces a financial crunch. With the overdraft facility, you can withdraw even when the account balance is zero.
Read more about Overdraft facility
Transaction fees
Generally, banks allow individuals to carry out unlimited transactions via their current account. However,  banks charge a fee for international transactions, or when the number of outward transactions (also called payouts) in a period exceeds a predetermined free-transaction limit.. Make sure you check the schedule of transaction fees prior to applying for a current account. Ideally, you should opt for a bank that offers a current account with  a high free transaction limit and low transaction fees.
Robust online banking infrastructure
You should apply for a  current account with a financial institution gives you a user-friendly mobile and internet banking portal.This way, your need for going to bank branches for simple tasks will be reduced greatly, leaving you time to focus on running your business. 
Sign up now
 
Documents for opening a current account
Banks usually demand several documents for KYC while opening your current account.  Document requirements may differ slightly from bank to bank. Ensure that you have all the documents – general and specific to the bank you want to open your account with – handy for account opening. 
Here is a list of general documents that you will need, regardless of your type of business and the bank you want to open your account with:

Address proof: any one out of Aadhar card, voter ID card, rent agreement, electricity bill, telephone bill, water bill, passport, driving license
Identity proof: any one out of PAN card, passport, voter ID card, driving license, aadhaar card
Business registration proof or incorporation certificate
PAN of the entity
Latest passport size photo
Account opening cheque from an existing bank account
You must submit KYC documents for all the authorised signatories of your business.Please note that, based on your type of business (sole proprietorship, partnership, company and the like), you will need additional documents for account opening. You can find a comprehensive list of current account opening documents for different kinds of businesses here.
Once you’ve submitted your documents, representatives from the financial institution will take you through the next steps of the account opening process. 

The RazorpayX-Powered Startup Current Account: built by disruptors, for disruptors
Running a startup can be hard – but money movement doesn’t have to be. We, at RazorpayX, have built a current account that is for startups like yours, so you can focus on growing your businesses without ever having to worry about your money.
 With a RazorpayX-powered Current Account, you can:

Pay your vendors accurately and on time with intelligent Vendor Payments, armed with OCR-based invoice scanning and payments that you can schedule in advance
Automate payroll and statutory compliances end-to-end and execute them in 10 minutes with RazorpayX Payroll
Enjoy the most seamless payouts experience in India with RazorpayX Payouts
Add beneficiaries just the way you add contacts on your phone, and start transacting immediately without waiting out a cooling period
Make informed decisions with smart, real-time insights and reporting from your RazorpayX dashboard
Bank on the go with the RazorpayX mobile app, and make, approve or reject payouts on your Apple Watch

…and a whole lot more, like 250 free payouts every month!
Get started now!
 



 










 Liked this article? Subscribe to our weekly newsletter for more.














0













Author
Aratrica Chakraborty 
Content Marketer at RazorpayX. Travel & Scuba Enthusiast. Makes the best vegan coffee.





Related Posts



 

Startup Business Loans: 5 Key Factors That Determine Your Eligibility

March 21, 2023





 

6 Tips to Build a Strong Business Credit Profile: A Guide to Online Business Loan Eligibility

March 20, 2023





 

Corporate Finance: A Comprehensive Guide

March 20, 2023





 

What Lenders Look For: Understanding Business Loan Eligibility

March 19, 2023








Write A Comment Cancel Reply














Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
				

 

 


 




 

 










Enter your email address below to subscribe to our newsletter










 





Recent Posts


Startup Business Loans: 5 Key Factors That Determine Your Eligibility


6 Tips to Build a Strong Business Credit Profile: A Guide to Online Business Loan Eligibility


Corporate Finance: A Comprehensive Guide


What Lenders Look For: Understanding Business Loan Eligibility


A Brief History of Business Loans in India










 




In
Payments


ATM: All You Need to Know About Automated teller machine


December 11, 2022

4 Mins Read

 








 




In
Taxation & Notifications


MSME Definition- MSME Full-form and Meaning 2023


September 13, 2021

5 Mins Read

 





 







 
 







Facebook





Twitter





Instagram





YouTube





LinkedIn



© Razorpay 2021. All Rights Reserved				

 Top




 










Submit

			Type above and press Enter to search. Press Esc to cancel.		






 




































