











How to Sell Event Tickets Online Without a Website - Razorpay Payment Pages







































































































Business Management
Payments
Payroll
Business Banking Plus
Guides & Ebooks
 



Facebook
Twitter
Instagram





 







In
Payments


				How to Sell Event Tickets Online Without a Website			

September 5, 2019

3 Mins Read



 




Share



Share on Facebook



Share on Twitter



LinkedIn



Email





Imagine this. You’re hosting this amazing event. And this is the kind of event that many want to go to. If you’re wondering how to sell event tickets online without a website, read on.
It doesn’t really make sense to create a website just for the sake of this event. You’ll end up spending big big bucks on developers, on hosting your website.  Let’s not even talk about a Payment Gateway integration. Although worthwhile, can be expensive and time-consuming.




And what will you do after the event of over? Will you just keep hosting your website for no reason? 
That doesn’t sound right. 
Let’s tell you what you can do instead. You can get the functionality of a webpage that can be customized to suit your brand. 
And, this page is not even hosted by you, and it still accepts online payments for you.
How, you ask?
Let’s introduce to you, Razorpay Payment Pages You don’t need a website. You don’t need a payment gateway. You don’t need to spend huge amounts of money. 
All you have to do is create your Razorpay Payment Page from the Razorpay dashboard, customize the page to suit your brand, choose the details you want to capture from your customers, and share the Payment Page with them on email, social media, and more!
Get Started With Payment Pages
 
Here’s how Razorpay Payment Pages helps you sell tickets. 
Razorpay Payment Pages helps you with end-to-end payment collection by allowing you to create your page without you having to host it, still allowing you to have a custom URL, which is an extension of your business. This is going to bring down your cost by a lot. 
You can capture customer data the way you want, with particulars you decide.  Your Payment Page is not hosted by you and yet allows you to have a custom URL!
You have access to a dashboard that gives you detailed reports for payments collected via the hosted page. 
And best of all, it will take you absolutely no tech expertise or effort to build yourself a Payment Page and go live.
What if you already have a website?
Simple! 
Just link your Payment Page to your website where you need to accept payments, and it will work just like a payment gateway without the hassle of integration!
All of this with complete security since Payment Pages is a part of the Razorpay’s core platform. Your Payment Page is secured by an industry standard 100% PCI DSS compliant and certified solution.
More benefits of Razorpay Payment Pages

 Automate the generation and collection of payments using Razorpay’s powerful APIs
 Receive webhook notifications for all payments
 Receive data, insights, and reports on the Razorpay dashboard
 Support for international payments in 100 foreign currencies

Host your event without worrying about payments, and focus on making your event a superhit! Get started with Razorpay Payment Pages and never worry about accepting payments again!

 
Get Started With Payment Pages


 










 Liked this article? Subscribe to our weekly newsletter for more.











payment pages



0













Author
Khushali Shah 
Khushali is a content marketer at Razorpay. A logophile, traveler and inbound marketing enthusiast, she loves questioning the 'why' and 'how' of almost everything.



Facebook



Twitter



Instagram



LinkedIn





Related Posts



 

ATM: All You Need to Know About Automated teller machine

December 11, 2022





 

Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)Timings

December 11, 2022





 

NEFT Timings and Settlements

December 7, 2022





 

How to Become a Meesho Supplier: A Complete Guide

August 28, 2022








Write A Comment Cancel Reply














Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
				

 

 


 




 

 










Enter your email address below to subscribe to our newsletter










 





Recent Posts


Startup Business Loans: 5 Key Factors That Determine Your Eligibility


6 Tips to Build a Strong Business Credit Profile: A Guide to Online Business Loan Eligibility


Corporate Finance: A Comprehensive Guide


What Lenders Look For: Understanding Business Loan Eligibility


A Brief History of Business Loans in India










 




In
Payments


ATM: All You Need to Know About Automated teller machine


December 11, 2022

4 Mins Read

 








 




In
Taxation & Notifications


MSME Definition- MSME Full-form and Meaning 2023


September 13, 2021

5 Mins Read

 





 







 
 







Facebook





Twitter





Instagram





YouTube





LinkedIn



© Razorpay 2021. All Rights Reserved				

 Top




 










Submit

			Type above and press Enter to search. Press Esc to cancel.		





Disclaimer: Banking Services and Razorpay powered Current Account is provided by Scheduled Banks








				Want to increase your revenue by 10x?			

Take the First STEP by Launching your Business Online!






Access Razorpay Exclusive




			×            





































