











E-book: The Complete Guide to Closing the Financial Year for Startups - RazorpayX

































































































Payments
Business Banking Plus

Exclusive


Online Commerce
Payroll
Customer Stories

Inspiration Brew


Policies with Dr. Poli
 





 







In
Featured


				E-book: The Complete Guide to Closing the Financial Year for Startups			

March 10, 2021

2 Mins Read



 




Share



Share on Facebook



Share on Twitter



LinkedIn



Email





Financial year-end is dreaded by business owners & finance professionals alike. The last-minute accounting tasks and overwhelming paperwork that goes into closing the finance books are understandably burdensome for most businesses. 
In our latest ebook, we have compiled everything you need to do to close the financial year, without many hassles.
What’s inside the Ebook
The ultimate year-end accounting checklist with a step-by-step process of, 
Reconciling all ledgers
Reconciliation of bank accounts is one of the most important things in closing the financial year. We’ve talked about all the steps involved in detail.

Reconcile Accounts payable ledgers
Reconcile Accounts receivable ledgers 
Reconcile Loan balances
Reconcile GST liability and input credit ledger

Closing the accounting books
Closing the books generates a summary of all the financial statements that help you understand your business’s financial health. We discuss everything you need to do to close your accounting books.

Calculate the yearly revenue & expenses
Raise all sales invoices for FY 2021-22 before 31st March 2022
Update the fixed asset register 
Make a provision for depreciation 
Make a provision for expenses for which vendor bills are not received

Explore RazorpayX
 
Filing & paying business taxes on time
Learn all the important due dates & processes to file & pay advance tax & TDS returns. 
Prepping for year-end payroll 
Payroll is one of the most significant expenses incurred by businesses to run their operations. Reconciling salaries, compliance payments, and reporting the correct amount will help analyze your business health accurately. 
You get a year-end checklist exclusively for payroll management so that you can ensure a seamless closure of the current financial year. 
Planning budget
Setting up a budget for your business is one of the best ways to prepare and avoid unforeseen financial challenges. Learn how you can set up a budget for the upcoming year and avoid unforeseen financial challenges.
Explore RazorpayX
 
Pro tips to plan better for the next financial year
Learn from the experts on how to manage your finances better & what you need to do to get ready for the next financial year. 




 









 Liked this article? Subscribe to our weekly newsletter for more.



























Author
Suhani Jain 
Suhani is a Content Marketer at RazorpayX, and she is passionate about all things related to reading, writing, and food. 



LinkedIn





Related Posts



 

Cost Accounting: Meaning, Types & Examples

March 20, 2023





 

All About Return on Investment (ROI)

March 20, 2023





 

Startup Current Account: The Best Way to Bank for New Age Businesses

March 20, 2023








Write A Comment Cancel Reply














Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
				

 

 


 

 
 







Facebook





Twitter





Instagram





YouTube





LinkedIn



© Razorpay 2020 All Rights Reserved				

 Top




 











				X			

RazorpayX


			CLOSE			






















