











The 5 Laws of Financial Management for Businesses - RazorpayX Blog

































































































Payments
Business Banking Plus

Exclusive


Online Commerce
Payroll
Customer Stories

Inspiration Brew


Policies with Dr. Poli
 





 







In
Uncategorized


				The 5 Laws of Financial Management for Businesses			

December 26, 2022

6 Mins Read



 




Share



Share on Facebook



Share on Twitter



LinkedIn



Email





All businesses start out as profit-making machines. 
All business functions are aimed at making as much money as possible from the initial investment, but the line from investment to profit is not a straight one. 
There are ups and downs, twists and turns… turning business into profit is not easy!
What is the secret to profitability? How do successful entrepreneurs ensure that their investment brings them maximum return?
The answer: financial management. 


Table of Contents

What is Financial Management? The 5 Laws of Financial Management for BusinessesEvery Rupee Makes (at least) TwoBusiness Takes Off On Long RunwaysCompliance is Key Forecast Your FutureOnly the Best Bank For Your BusinessFAQsWhat is financial management?Do I need to hire a financial manager for my business?Is financial management important?What is good financial management?
What is Financial Management? 
Financial management is knowing how and where to put your money to ensure maximum returns. 
Successful financial management for a business would include efficiently allocating finances to the various departments in such a way that profitability is maximum. 
A business runs on capital. 
Capital is the investment made into the business, and it can be from a variety of sources. In most cases, the founder of the business puts some of his own money into the business. His investment is supplemented by loans from banks or investments from investors.
It is up to the business management to then decide where to put this money. 
How much of the capital should be used to buy fixed assets for the business? How much for employee well-being? How much should the business invest into deposits or bonds? 
If you make these decisions for your business, then congratulations! You are a financial manager. 
Of course, there are many, many dimensions to financial management for businesses. Huge multinational corporations have entire departments dedicated to financial management. Let’s take a look at why financial management is probably the single most important thing for a business founder to know. 
The 5 Laws of Financial Management for Businesses
A big part of why businesses fail has to do with improper management of funds. In the initial stages of a business, when money is fresh and spirits are high, it is important to know how to make the most of the money in your coffers. 
What does “proper management of finances” look like? Here are the 5 laws of financial management every business founder should know. 


Every Rupee Makes (at least) Two


Money invested into a business must benefit the business, and ultimately, all business functions must aim at this. 
A business becomes profitable when the money earned is less than the money spent. Let’s say Shalini spends Rs 100 every month on running her e-commerce shop. If she sells goods worth Rs 250 in her first month, she’s made a profit of Rs 150. 
Every rupee she spent on her business multiplied 2.5x! 
This is the basic principle of financial management. Any money spent on the business must bring more money back! 
Of course, nobody can run a business without taking on losses. But it is important to ensure that losses are as minimal as possible.


Business Takes Off On Long Runways


The cash runway of a business is how long a business’s cash is able to sustain operations. 
Shalini’s business incurs expenses of Rs 100 every month – let’s say her business has Rs 10,000 in cash at the moment. This means her cash runway is 100 months or around 8 years! 
Even if Shalini’s business does not earn even Rs 1 in profit, the cash that she has will sustain operations for 8 years to come.
A long, healthy cash runway is an important part of financial management. Businesses should not only have enough money to sustain operations for a long time, but they should also be able to extend that runway continuously by earning profits (refer Principle One!) 


Compliance is Key 


There are laws and taxes in place to ensure that businesses contribute positively to society. A business has to comply with these laws, for its own best interest. 
Taxes like TDS, TCS, and GST make sure that the business gives back to the government and community. Laws like the Minimum Wages Act and the Sale of Goods Act protect the employees and the public from the dangers of profit-mongering that businesses are prone to.
Financial Management for businesses includes compliance: making sure that the business pays its taxes on time and correctly, and follows all the necessary laws. 
In bigger companies and MNCs, there are experts and whole teams responsible for compliance – but in a small business or startup, the founder is generally responsible for ensuring compliance, and this can be challenging. 
Tax calculation is not easy, especially when businesses absolutely have to get the numbers right, or be at risk of having to pay a fine.
Thankfully, there are many tools to help businesses with their tax payments and compliances. 
Easy compliance with RazorpayX


Forecast Your Future


Risk is inevitable. If business owners and managers do not anticipate and provide for potential risk, they are setting themselves up for failure!
There are many different kinds of risks that can affect a business. Some of these risks can be anticipated, like risks due to price hikes or interest rates. But most of these risks cannot be anticipated, like the COVID pandemic, or the Russia-Ukraine crisis. 
Ensuring that there is money kept aside for unforeseen crises is also financial management. Businesses that have this reserve can thrive even in the most difficult conditions!



Only the Best Bank For Your Business


 A big part of financial management is handling money – the biggest part, in fact! Businesses deal with big amounts of money coming in and going out on a daily basis, and need specialized banking services to handle these transaction volumes. 
Businesses also have other needs: payroll, vendor management, tax payments and compliances, corporate credit cards, business loans and so much more. 
A growing business needs a good bank to support its financial management – this is possibly the most important rule of all. But what makes a good bank?

Provides all banking services for a business in one place 
Reliable and sturdy with zero downtime, because business banking never stops
Debit cards, credit cards, net banking, mobile app, and other accessibility services
Integrations with accounting software so business owners don’t have to manually reconcile every transaction made
Best customer service in case of any issue

These are a few of the things that founders should look for when picking a bank for their business. RazorpayX is one of the banks that provides all the services listed above and even some special features, specifically for Indian business founders! 
Check out RazorpayX
FAQs



What is financial management?

Financial management is knowing how and where to put your money to ensure maximum returns. Successful financial management for a business would include efficiently allocating finances to the various departments in such a way that profitability is maximum. 



Do I need to hire a financial manager for my business?

If you are a small business owner or a startup founder, chances are you are the financial manager for your business already! You only need to keep in mind the 5 laws of financial management and you're good to go.



Is financial management important?

Yes, it is possibly the most important thing for a business. It ensures that the business's resources are being used in the best way possible and brings the business up to profitability. 



What is good financial management?

Good financial management follows the 5 Laws of Financial Management. Each law in this blog talks about an aspect of financial management that is important to businesses. 






 









 Liked this article? Subscribe to our weekly newsletter for more.



























Author
Raghavi Kasa 
Raghavi likes to think that because she writes for a living, she'd be good at writing a short bio for herself. But she isn't. She is good at binging K-drama, though.





Related Posts



 

Razorpay Extends Unwavering Support to Employees’ Families with its new ‘Family Assurance Benefits Policy’

October 11, 2022





 

5 Proven Ways to Grow Your Ecommerce Businesses in India

May 13, 2022





 

India’s FinTech – An Unbalanced Adoption

October 7, 2019








Write A Comment Cancel Reply














Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
				

 

 


 

 
 







Facebook





Twitter





Instagram





YouTube





LinkedIn



© Razorpay 2020 All Rights Reserved				

 Top




 








Disclaimer: Banking Services and Razorpay powered Current Account is provided by Scheduled Banks







				X			

RazorpayX


			CLOSE			





























