











#02 Easiest way to Accept Donations without a Website by NGO's







































































































Business Management
Payments
Payroll
Business Banking Plus
Guides & Ebooks
 



Facebook
Twitter
Instagram





 







In
Payments


				How NGOs Can Accept Donations Without a Website?			

August 15, 2020

3 Mins Read



 




Share



Share on Facebook



Share on Twitter



LinkedIn



Email





Past couple of years has been a difficult for all of us. The small silver lining in an otherwise dark cloud has been witnessing how people are rallying together to help one another and those in need.
We grow stronger when we are there for one another. And that is what keeps our faith in humanity alive. So if you are also looking to gather contributions for COVID19 relief or any other cause, Razorpay Payment Pages allow you to easily and quickly collect donations without any hassle. 




Way to Accept Donations Without a Website
1. Razorpay Payment Pages 
It are specifically designed to accept payments online without a payment gateway integration. You don’t even need to have a website. You can use the Razorpay Payment Page link as the landing page to accept donations. 
Payment Pages can be designed and customized to match your branding requirements. They allow your contributors to donate through various methods like:

Credit cards
Debit cards
Wallets
Netbanking
UPI

Creating a Razorpay Payment Page is also easy as 1-2-3. You can use one of our in-built templates or create a template of your own. 

Login to your Razorpay Dashboard
Click on Payment Pages
Select a template
Upload images and add information

And you’re done! You are ready to start accepting donations. You can also do a lot more with Razorpay Payment Pages. You can accept fees, sell goods or services, register attendees for events, and more. You can also accept international payments in 100 foreign currencies through Razorpay Payment Pages.
Enterprises and startups around India have used Razorpay Payment Pages for various use cases. What’s best is that there is no extra costs or fees for using Payment Pages. 
So get going with Razorpay Payment Pages right away. Your good cause deserves a good way to implement and execute it. 
Check out the video below to know more Razorpay Payment Pages.

2. Payment Button
Say hello to the powerful Razorpay Payment Button. It brings you the power of a payment gateway at the click of a button.
All you need to do is all a code to your website and start accepting donations.
With Razorpay Payment Button, you can:

Add an integrated checkout with payment gateway on your website
Start accepting donations without any integration or coding efforts
Accept donations from more than 100 countries

And a lot more! You can use one of our existing templates or create one of your own.
Razorpay Payment Button is the easiest way to accept donations and make a difference in the world.
Start Accepting Donations with 1-click



 










 Liked this article? Subscribe to our weekly newsletter for more.











payments



7













Author
Saurin Parikh 
Saurin heads Content at Razorpay. He's a fintech enthusiast who enjoys long walks in the Bangalore weather. He says he's a "cool dad" (those are his words, his son has refused to comment). He writes primarily on personal and business finance, and a little bit on marketing.



Website



Facebook



Twitter



Instagram



LinkedIn





Related Posts



 

ATM: All You Need to Know About Automated teller machine

December 11, 2022





 

Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)Timings

December 11, 2022





 

NEFT Timings and Settlements

December 7, 2022





 

How to Become a Meesho Supplier: A Complete Guide

August 28, 2022








Write A Comment Cancel Reply














Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
				

 

 


 




 

 










Enter your email address below to subscribe to our newsletter










 





Recent Posts


Startup Business Loans: 5 Key Factors That Determine Your Eligibility


6 Tips to Build a Strong Business Credit Profile: A Guide to Online Business Loan Eligibility


Corporate Finance: A Comprehensive Guide


What Lenders Look For: Understanding Business Loan Eligibility


A Brief History of Business Loans in India










 




In
Payments


ATM: All You Need to Know About Automated teller machine


December 11, 2022

4 Mins Read

 








 




In
Taxation & Notifications


MSME Definition- MSME Full-form and Meaning 2023


September 13, 2021

5 Mins Read

 





 







 
 







Facebook





Twitter





Instagram





YouTube





LinkedIn



© Razorpay 2021. All Rights Reserved				

 Top




 










Submit

			Type above and press Enter to search. Press Esc to cancel.		





Disclaimer: Banking Services and Razorpay powered Current Account is provided by Scheduled Banks








				Want to increase your revenue by 10x?			

Take the First STEP by Launching your Business Online!






Access Razorpay Exclusive




			×            





































