











How to Sell Online Without a Website - Razorpay Payment Pages
































































































Business Management
Payments
Payroll
Business Banking Plus
Guides & Ebooks
 



Facebook
Twitter
Instagram





 







In
Payments


				How to Sell Online Without a Website			

September 5, 2019

3 Mins Read



 




Share



Share on Facebook



Share on Twitter



LinkedIn



Email





Online sellers, especially the ones using modes like Facebook, Instagram, and other social media sites, emails, Whatsapp, DMs, and more to sell their products, often find it difficult to sell online without a website. 
Are you one of those online sellers who needs a simplified solution to accept payments from your customers? 




Don’t worry, we won’t tell you a long, boring story about one particular situation which you may or may not be able to apply to your own.
A lot of people want to sell online but are unable to do so because getting a website is a major investment and integrating a payment gateway requires deep tech knowledge. That is the problem statement. And since we have stated the problem statement, we’ll state the solution as well.
We’ll take you through accepting online payments from your customers as you sell your products to them, online!
Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs can take their business online and accept payments with limited technical knowledge and even less set-up time. Let’s talk about one solution that works perfectly to fit your needs.
Introducing Razopay Payment Pages
A page that is not hosted or developed by you, but has your branding, and accepts online payments for you – Razorpay Payment Pages is literally just that! 
Whether you have a website or you don’t, whether you have an app or you don’t, you can still accept payments online through Payment Pages. You can effortlessly create a Payment Page in less than 5 minutes, go live and start accepting payments from your customers, without any support.
Let’s go over some features.
Razorpay Payment Pages is built to accept end-to-end payments. You can do so without having to host it, while you can still have your custom URL per your brand! How amazing is that?!
Mind you, this has brought down your cost by substantial value.
The best part is the dashboard. Capture customer data the way you’d want, with particulars you decide. Use the dashboard to get insights for payments collected via the hosted page. And, it will take you absolutely no tech expertise or effort to build yourself a Payment Page and go live.
Razorpay already has a few templates you can choose from, but if you feel like you want to take a crack at it, feel free to create your own. All you have to do is log in to your dashboard, create a Payment Page, and choose what customer data you want to capture. 
Build your custom URL and send it to your customers over SMS, email, social media, and more. Sit back, relax, and let Razorpay do its thing.  
If you have a website, just link your Payment Page to your CTA, and there you have it!
All of this is with complete security since Payment Pages is a part of the Razorpay’s core platform. Your Payment Page is secured by an industry standard 100% PCI DSS compliant and certified solution.
Razorpay Payment Pages also supports international payments in 100 currencies. Razorpay Payment Pages boasts of 700 customers with the likes of Schindler, Swiggy, Don Bosco School, BMW Financial Services, Nestaway, Testbook, and FinanceBazaar, among others.

Get Started With Payment Pages
 


 










 Liked this article? Subscribe to our weekly newsletter for more.














1













Author
Harshitha Rao 
Harshitha is a marketer at the future-forward RazorpayX. She has an insatiable love for travel and culture, rock music, and the work of Neil Gaiman.





Related Posts



 

ATM: All You Need to Know About Automated teller machine

December 11, 2022





 

Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)Timings

December 11, 2022





 

NEFT Timings and Settlements

December 7, 2022





 

How to Become a Meesho Supplier: A Complete Guide

August 28, 2022








Write A Comment Cancel Reply














Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
				

 

 


 




 

 










Enter your email address below to subscribe to our newsletter










 





Recent Posts


Startup Business Loans: 5 Key Factors That Determine Your Eligibility


6 Tips to Build a Strong Business Credit Profile: A Guide to Online Business Loan Eligibility


Corporate Finance: A Comprehensive Guide


What Lenders Look For: Understanding Business Loan Eligibility


A Brief History of Business Loans in India










 




In
Payments


ATM: All You Need to Know About Automated teller machine


December 11, 2022

4 Mins Read

 








 




In
Taxation & Notifications


MSME Definition- MSME Full-form and Meaning 2023


September 13, 2021

5 Mins Read

 





 







 
 







Facebook





Twitter





Instagram





YouTube





LinkedIn



© Razorpay 2021. All Rights Reserved				

 Top




 










Submit

			Type above and press Enter to search. Press Esc to cancel.		





Disclaimer: Banking Services and Razorpay powered Current Account is provided by Scheduled Banks








				Want to increase your revenue by 10x?			

Take the First STEP by Launching your Business Online!






Access Razorpay Exclusive




			×            





































