
title: Normal Refunds
desc: Check how to issue Normal Refunds to your customers, the refund process, processing time and refund fees.

You can issue Normal refunds to your customers which is processed within 5-7 working days.

Customer Looking for Refund

If you are a customer looking for a refund, know more about customer refunds.

How Normal Refunds Work

When you make a Normal refund request to Razorpay, the information is sent to banking partners or other related stakeholders. Each of them have their own process for refund requests. After processing the refund request, the refund amount is sent to the customer's bank account or card balance.

Following is a typical flow for card refunds:

Payment Methods

We support all payment methods for Normal refunds.

Refunds are sent back to the original payment method used in making the payment. For example, if a credit card was used to make the payment, the refund amount is pushed to the same credit card.

Processing Time

When you send a Normal refund request to Razorpay, the information is sent to our banking partners. Depending on the bank's processing time, it can take 5-7 business days for the refunds to reflect in the customer's bank account or card balance.

The time taken to process a normal refund depends on the payment mode used while making the payment.

Payment Method | Refund Time

credit or debit cards | 5-10 days

netbanking | 2-10 days

wallet | 0-3 days

upi | 2-7 days

Refund Fees

For Normal refunds, Razorpay does not charge any processing fee. However, the transaction fee and GST levied by Razorpay at the time of payment capture will not be reversed to your account (merchant's account).

Dashboard and API Actions
You can perform the following actions:
Issue Normal refunds
View Refunds
Set the Normal refund speed
Handle refund errors

Related Information
About Refunds
 Instant Refund
Batch Refund
Issue refunds
View Refunds
Set the Refund Speed
Add funds to your account to process refunds (low account balance)
Handle refund errors
Refunds API
Subscribe to Webhooks
Refund Communication
Refunds FAQs
